joining me today is the front man for
the gold antitrust action committee the
committee that stands by the claim that
there's gold and silver manipulation in
the markets bill Murphy joins me now
he's also the founder of the Metropole
cafe his own blog thanks for being with
me though right get Daniela good to see
you again well last time we saw each
other was last week at the silver summon
in Spokane and some sparks flew when
strong allegations were made against one
of your key witnesses whistleblower
Andrew Maguire I brought you on today to
help clear the record and move on from
this subject what are your thoughts on
what transpired yeah well like my
colleague Chris Powell likes they were a
fact planning organization and what
happened was it this thing got out of
hand in terms of Andrew Maguire
supposing credibility anybody who knows
and who knows he knows the markets as
well as anyone has got a great
reputation in London and all over the
world what happened was is that I was
appearing before the CFTC in March 25th
2010 Andrew Maguire had given
information to the CFTC with emails in
advance of how JP Morgan was rigging the
silver market it's all in writing he was
hanging out at a waterhole in London for
a long time with the Morgan traders
since since the CFTC wouldn't allow him
to testify he gave the information to
Adrian Douglas my colleague when over
his back on the whole thing and I'm sure
he mentioned at one point it was just a
throw-in thing that he worked with Aaron
and it's everybody knows if you say you
work for Aaron its comedy said who you
work for Goldman so in my testimony to
the CFTC I said he's a London metals
trader I said formerly of Goldman Sachs
or of Jay Aaron and it was just put down
there now I didn't hear a thing about it
again for a year and a half or two when
all of a sudden became a big deal at the
silver summit a couple years ago that
Jeff Christian brought it up well I
couldn't go back to Adrian because I
hadn't spoken Andrew at the time because
he had terminal brain cancer and
unfortunately Adrian's died so that
can't be cleared up but that is a
nothing compared to the evidence that
was presented about Morgan manipulating
the silver market why did that discussed
and we'll get to that in a second bill
but maybe you can help clarify as to why
you testified in front of the CFTC and
not Andrew well I was gathered all along
to testify about the manipulation of the
markets it was about Pacific position
limits and I had met bart chilton four
or five months earlier and I think with
his help I was able to get on their most
people think they wouldn't even allow me
to do so but I was allowed to test on
testify even though mine was the only
only live showing that was blacked out
by their cameras they said it was era
some sort and I just want to clarify
bilder Kitco news has repeatedly asked
Andrew Maguire to come on the show he
has yet to accept the invitation but how
did andrew mcguire ever surface how did
gotta find him and how did this all come
about well as we're saying is that i was
going to speak in front the CFTC and
andrew thought he was going to be
allowed to do also and when he when he
wasn't able to they wouldn't let him
speak he contacted Adrian Douglas was
speaking to and then we got all this
information at the last minute we hope
we can get it in it wasn't part of my
testimony but Bart Chilton was receiving
these emails about this manipulation
knew what was going on know how credible
anger was because children spoken to to
Andrew Maguire he allowed it to be to be
brought in at the last minute and that's
how this all started when we'll move
past this bill but I just want to know
if you've spoken to andrew since the
silver summit just by email back and
forth bill did Jeffrey Christians
presentation Herc gotta did any of your
members question what he said well
anytime you have allegations you look at
them you don't throw it away blindly but
if anything this has helped gotta
because people are realizing that the
gold car tell us we call it has to be in
trouble to put out an attack dog like
this about what the message you know
versus the message shoot the message
your kind of thing well hopefully we can
move past Maguire and you and Jeffery
Christian can make peaceful not going to
happen okay well on that note now that
the CFTC has closed its five-year
investigation into silver manipulation
take became out saying they couldn't
find any evidence of manipulation what's
next for gotta well that's just really
just a small part of it right now my
colleague Chris Powell has been in
Australia New Zealand Steve
and conferences and if anybody really
wants to understand what God is all
about Christmas speeches at the Goddard
org website goes to titled gold price
depression why how and how much just
have to read the whole thing it's
getting rave reviews all over the
internet for people that have read it
and so on so I mean the silver
investigation I mean what the heck is
sort of silly they in it they take some
five years to investigate the silver
market right about their time limb was
about to run out they said they couldn't
find anything meanwhile the Justice
Department this is all effect is
investigating JPMorgan in five different
areas for fraud or market manipulation
five different areas the only market
that they're not manipulating I guess is
is the silver market everybody knows
they were involved in the LIBOR scandal
what just gold and silver they're not
manipulating so but that's just one
thing and I I think we can explain it
from a goddess standpoint is that the
investigators are checking everything
out and they're realizing that their own
government is part of the manipulation
well bill I know I'll see you again at
the metals and minerals conference
coming up in San Francisco and I know
we'll hear more from you on this topic
well in more Busta portly I'd like to
talk about it down the road is how come
a gold is going down when the stock
market keeps going up and the euro has
been going up and tape freaks supposed
to be a big deal but since the last
quantitative easing goals dropped four
or five hundred bucks in the dalles
going up two thousand plate what should
be good for the goose should be good for
the gander well I guess some people
would argue that's the exact reason gold
is going down because the stock market
is rallying well they can say what they
want well thanks so much bill it's
always a pleasure seeing you thanks for
being on thanks for having me daniela
and thanks for watching this edition of
Kitco news you can email us and use
feedback cocom or follow me on twitter
at ding alikum bunny thanks for watching
you